JONES-CLAY-PEETE-ROBINSON CEMETERY



Area views of the cemetery premises: 6485/6486/6487/6488/6489

JONES, John W., 7 Feb 1819 - 4 Dec 1846. 6496/Footstone J.W.J.: 6498
JONES, Mary E., 29 Nov 1841 - 3 Mar 1846 6494/Footstone M.E.J.: 6495

Additional unknown Footstone J.W.J. may be a childs grave: 6499/
Unknown (adult?)headstone base: 6490

The organization of this graveyard is hard to understand with all the broken stones, missing stone parts and two footstones with the same
initials J.W.J. There is an unknown headstone base in the far southern side of the front row of graves and it has no visible footstone. 
There is a footstone with initials J.W.J. that probably matches up to a small broken (headstone?) base in the second row east behind the footstone
M.E.J. The base for the small J.W.J. is missing a mid section so it cannot be matched up to the small broken base furtherest east, but
probably is the base for the footstone J.W.J.. This (initials J.W.J.) appears to be a child's grave, but it has no visible headstone. 
The Mary E. Jones stone does match up to its broken footstone forming the proper grave cradle (headstone west - grave - footstone east). However there is 
a missing mid-section of the footstone.  The broken John W. Jones headstone was lying near the base of a tree next to the other footstone J.W.J but 
there did not appear to be a grave there. I relocated it at the head of an adult grave J.W.J. footstone which matched the 2nd footstone J.W.J. This is the only standing 
complete footstone and its initials are J.W.J. also, but it was without the headstone. I probed adn found as many the broken parts as I could find and put it on the 
head of the grave just south of Mary E. Jones to form a grave cradle there. Of course that left us with a broken headstone base (next grave south) with nothing
else found. Most all these graves were covered to some degree in old brick making it hard to probe for lost stones under the soil. All in 
all there are perhaps stones or parts of stone for as many as four graves. Of course this makes no accountablilty for unmarked graves which is difficult 
to asses here because of being in a dense thicket which I only partially cleared.
 

Unreported in the Limestone County Cemetery book, by the Smith's.

