History of Madison County, AL Sivleys...
 bmiller3230  (View posts)  Posted: 11 Feb 2003 3:33AM

Classification: Query
Surnames: Sivley
From the book "A History of Madison County".

It does not mention that Joseph Sievley (Sivley) arrived in Pennsylvania aboard the ship "Robert & Alice" from Rotterdam in 1743. I have more info if anyone needs it...


The Sivley family came originally from the Dutch colony in Pennsylvania, migrating to Virginia. Our first traceable history is to Joseph Seively (Sivley) and his wife, Catherine, through his will Shenandoah County Virginia, 1787. Joseph, who was born circa1728 in Germany, is listed as furnishing "beef and grain" for t Colonists during the Revolution. His sons John, Peter and Jacob (maybe others) served in the rebellion.

Jacob volunteered in November 1777, but was then drafted February 1778. He served as a Private in dark's 8th Virginia Regiment then in Kirkpatrick's 4th Regiment. He is listed "sick in tent" at Valley Forge in May 1778 and was discharged February 1779.

In November 1786, Jacob sold household goods, livestock and pine chest containing all my wife's wearing apparel". It must ha been about this time that Jacob and his family left Virginia a went to Tennessee. Jacob is appointed "Overseer of road from Dandridge to Wilson's Station" Jefferson County, Tennessee in November 1794. Jacob was listed as an ensign from Jefferson County Tennessee in the Militia in 1799.

In 1801 Jacob is listed as a land owner in Jefferson County where daughter Catherine marries William Fine, 1804 and sons Andrew and Joseph marry Rebecca Denton and Rachel Taylor, 1807.

Jacob Sivley and his family came to Alabama from Tennessee 1809, floating down the Tennessee river on a flatboat. His son Andrew, Joseph (and maybe others) are supposed to have come down on this migration. Andrew's son, Rawley, was born on a flat boat in March of that year.

Jacob and his elder son, Andrew, then 26 years old, acquired adjoining land grants (160 acres each) from the government i August 28, of the year they arrived. The family settled South west of Huntsville, on the old Stage Coach Road, running from the river to Huntsville, where they built nice homes, raised cattle, farmed, distilled whiskey and ran a grist mill known as "Sivley's Mill". The Big Spring made a canal, flowing into a creek which emptied in the river, and small boats came up and down this stream to the new settlement. It ran through the land where the Sivleys settled. This section covered much of the site later known as Merrimack Village.

In December, 1932, the Huntsville Times printed stories old historic homes, and among these was a story of the Sivley Home, by Pat Jones. Mr. Jones described two homes, located near the Big Spring branch, midway between Merrimack and Whitesburg Pike: One frame house built on a rise, near the stream was believed to have been the older, and built by Jacob using cedar logs for uprights and beams. From here, Jacob directed his slaves in their work about his farm, called the "S Andrew Plantation". The second home: A more elaborate brick structure built around a winding staircase, thought to be built by Andrew, was located across the stream from the father. In addition, he put up a dam and formed a pond to supply water for his grist mill, which was to be his chief means of livelihood. This was the beginning of "Sivley Mill".

Jacob died in 1816 and was buried in what was to become the family burial ground. Jacob's wife, Alcey, died in 1818 and also buried in the family cemetery. Jacob named 10 heirs in h will and from the sale of his estate $3,390 was divided. At the time, Jacob's land was bought by Andrew. In 1832, Andrew sold a tract of land, including the mill pond to James B. Martin retaining water rights and the right of canal boats to pass through. In 1853, he sold the remaining acres to his son Joseph, for the sum of $15,000.

The Huntsville Times article by Mr. Jones also relates a story of "buried treasure" in a brick vault the family burial ground In February 1932, there came a well-dressed, chauffeur driven lady from Chicago who said she was a granddaughter of a Sivley. She came and looked the place over, left, but returned later to the family graveyard. It was later discovered that she had unearthed a brick vault, four feet square and two and one-half feet deep. What was taken from this vault, which certainly was not once a grave, is not known. It may have been valuable papers or gold, silver, or jewels cached by her forefathers, perhaps during the Civil War. This story was confirmed by Mr. W.F. Garth, who owned the property at that time.

All that remains today of those pioneer ancestors is the tall monument of Andrew, and some of his children, which marks the spot of the family burial ground, and Sivley Road near Huntsville Main Hospital. The cemetery is located at the western side of the old Huntsville Airport adjoining the City landfill.

Rev War Vet Jacob Sivley's War Service Honoured Today...
Brett Miller  (View posts)  Posted: 8 Mar 2003 8:49PM

Classification: Query
Surnames:
Revolution vet's grave is shrouded in mystery

Family tradition says woman took treasure from the cemetery in 1931

03/08/03

By MIKE MARSHALL
Times Staff Writer mmarshal@htimes.com


The temptation is to dwell on the buried treasure and the strangers who drove from Chicago to steal it. The descendents of Jacob Sivley swear the story's true, but they want you to remember him for more than a graveyard theft that happened long after his death.

They want you to remember Sivley's patriotism and valor. They want you to remember his role in the Revolutionary War and his presence at George Washington's winter encampment at Valley Forge, Pa.


About 50 of Sivley's descendents and the Tennessee Valley Chapter of the Sons of the American Revolution, among others, will gather today in a small cemetery near the city landfill on Leeman Ferry Road to honor his military service.

They will recite the Pledge of Allegiance and sing the national anthem and ''God Bless America.'' They will listen to a member of the American Legion Post 237 play ''Taps'' at the end of the service.

They will do all of this because of Jim Maples' desire to honor Sivley with two markers, which will be placed at the foot of Sivley's tombstone. The markers will be unveiled about midway through today's ceremony at Sivley Cemetery, founded in 1805, when the city's earliest settlers were arriving.

Maples, 55, is president of the local chapter of the Sons of the American Revolution. He and his wife, Linda, spend most of their weekends scouring local cemeteries for the headstones of the 90 or so Revolutionary War veterans believed buried in Madison County.

So far, the Mapleses have found about 30 of these graves.

''What breaks your heart is to go out in the county,'' Maples said. ''Some of those (headstones) are all broken up. They may not be there in a few years.''

A co-worker at Redstone Arsenal, Gordon Jones, informed Maples about Sivley's grave. Jones had seen it several years earlier, when he was dropping off trash at the landfill.

As Jones was leaving the landfill, waiting for his truck to be weighed at the weigh station, he noticed the grave. It is about 7 feet from the road to the landfill, at the southwest corner of the cemetery.

The Sivley name is well known in Huntsville. Sivley Road, named after Jacob's family, runs past the western side of Huntsville Hospital.

But Maples had been unaware of the cemetery until Jones mentioned it last summer.

''I don't believe you,'' Maples told Jones.

Around lunch that day, Maples and Jones drove to the site. The cemetery, which is maintained by the city, has a monument, two headstones and three footstones.

The engraving on Jacob Sivley's headstone reads:

Pvt. 8 Va. Regt.

Rev. War

March 18, 1752

Sept. 12, 1816

''A hardy man,'' Maples called him. As evidence, he cited Sivley's move to Alabama. In March 1809, he and his family left Tennessee on a flatboat that floated down the Tennessee River.

Jacob's sons, Andrew and Joseph, were on that boat, along with Andrew's pregnant wife. Jacob's grandson, Rawley, was born on the flatboat.

''A woman going into labor on a flatboat,'' said Ranee Pruitt, the archivist at the Huntsville-Madison County Public Library and a member of the Daughters of the American Revolution. ''That blows my mind.

''And people think we've got it rough now.''

Bricks scattered at grave

Harold McMillan, one of Sivley's descendants, saw Sivley's grave for the first time around 1954, when he was in his late 20s.

Recalled McMillan, now 78 and a retired NASA engineer living in Hampton Cove, ''I could still see the bricks still scattered around the grave.''

McMillan thinks the bricks were leftovers from the graveyard theft of February 1931. According to family lore, buried treasure had been hidden near Jacob Sivley's grave. It was stolen after a woman and her chauffeur arrived from Chicago in a luxury sedan.

''The event happened,'' McMillan said. ''What was removed is a mystery.''

Pat Jones, a former staff writer for The Huntsville Times, wrote about the theft in a story that was published Dec. 11, 1932. Jones wrote that ''an expensively dressed woman'' and a ''chauffeur in a uniform'' had driven to the old Sivley home, examined the estate and left.

The next day, they returned to the family graveyard, about a mile from the home Jacob Sivley built after his arrival in Huntsville. According to Jones, the woman ordered her chauffeur to dig in the graveyard.

''First, in order to do so, he cut away the roots on the side of (a cedar), some of which measured six or eight inches in diameter,'' Jones wrote. ''Soon, he uncovered a brick vault, four feet square and two and one-half inches deep, extending under the tree.''

Jones speculated that the buried treasure was gold, silver or jewelry. Perhaps it was valuable papers ''buried there so many years ago, with a tree planted on it,'' Jones wrote.

Either way, no one in Huntsville knew the identity of the woman from Chicago. Jones wrote that she had identified herself as a granddaughter of Sivley.

But that's not the end of the mystery of the Sivley Cemetery. McMillan, Maples and others, including city historians, believe John Hunt, the founder of Huntsville, is also buried there.

Near the end of his life, Hunt moved from Big Spring to his daughter's home. Hunt's daughter and son-in-law lived next to Jacob Sivley's 160-acre estate.

City historians believe Hunt died at his daughter's home. No marker in town indicates his burial site.

The Sivley Cemetery, perhaps the city's first cemetery, was the only cemetery near his daughter's home. ''I believe he was buried in that cemetery,'' McMillan said.

He also believes the city should mark Hunt's burial site. He believes the city should exhibit the same determination Maples and his wife have shown during their weekend searches for the graves of the county's Revolutionary War veterans.

The Mapleses' next project is to find the grave of Uriah Bass, a Revolutionary War soldier believed to be buried near Winchester Road in New Market.

He thinks it might be difficult. The last he heard, Bass' tombstone was in a pigsty.


